Add Rationale draft (#2)
rmrk-team/NestingEIP: README.md

    /**
     * @notice Used to add a child token to a given parent token.
     * @dev This adds the child token into the given parent token's pending child tokens array.
     * @dev The destination token MUST NOT be a child token of the token being transferred or one of its downstream child tokens.

>      *  child tokens.

Reviewer: This is repeated in the previous line.

     *  being the `0x0` address.
     * @param tokenId ID of the token from which to unnest a child token
     * @param to Address of the new owner of the child token being unnested

>      * @param destinationId ID of the token to receive this child token (should be 0 if the destination is not a token)

Reviewer: I think it is MUST instead of SHOULD here.

Author: Nice catch!

    /**
     * @notice Used to transfer the token into another token.
     * @dev The destination token MUST NOT be a child token of the token being transferred or one of its downstream child tokens.

>      *  child tokens.

Reviewer: Same here

## Rationale

Designing the proposal, we considered the following questions:

1. **How to name the proposal?**

> As this proposal standardizes the nesting of one `NFT` into another, the working title if the proposal was Nesting. In an effort to provide as much information about the proposal we identified the most important aspect of the proposal; the parent centered control over nesting. The 

Reviewer: `the working title if the proposal was Nesting` 
This doesn't feel like a correct sentence

Author: Just a typo :D

child token's role is only to be able to be `Nestable` and support a token owning it. This is how we landed on the `Parent-Centered` part of the title.

> 2. **Why is automatically accepting a child using [EIP-712](./eip-712.md) permit-style signatures not a part of this proposal?**

Reviewer: This could apply not only to accept child but also to other operations as reject and unnest (soon to be transferChild)

Author: I think I might not have gotten into enough detail here, or that this should have been broken down into two points.

1. Automatic acceptance without anything fancy (just whitelist some smart contract collection and anything from there is automatically accepted)
2. Using EIP-712 permits which does not require any kind of whitelisting, just correct `r`, `s` and `v` values that any nest operation can pass and the token is then accepted.

Maybe 2nd could be too abstract to include in the proposal, but I think it would add to the weight of it if we note that we considered both.

Reviewer: Let's do 2 points please. I think we should mention the no-712 rationale, but basically the same we did for MA.

Author: I realised after addressing the `Multi-Child Storage Schema` and `Propose-Commit pattern for child token management` that the point number 1 has already been addressed. I can modify this section a bit to be clearer, to address the point number 2, but I think we are good 👌

Allowing automatic acceptance of child tokens in the same action as proposing them using the EIP-712 was considered. This would require adding support for automatic approval of the proposed tokens in addition to the propose-commit pattern already implemented in the proposal. While we agree this could be beneficial, we feel that it is not a required flow for the proposal to be operational. Adding support for it would also increase the file size and deployment cost of the smart contract implementing the proposal.

Supporting such flow of approvals as a default flow for accepting the proposed tokens also requires more gas to process the transaction than the current one. This can still be added as an extension or custom business logic by the implementer.

3. **Why use indexes?** 

To reduce the gas consumption. If the token ID was used to find which token to accept or reject, iteration over arrays would be required and the cost of the operation would depend on the size of the active or pending children arrays. With the index, the cost is fixed. A list of active and pending children arrays per token need to be maintained, since methods to get them are part of the proposed interface.

> To avoid race conditions in which the index of a token changes, the expected token ID is included in operations requiring token index, to verify that the token being accessed using the index is the expected token.

Reviewer: We need both the expect contract address and token Id.

Implementation that would internally keep track of indices using mapping was attempted. After experimenting with such implementation, we concluded that it is not necessary for this proposal and can be implemented as an extension for use cases willing to accept the increased transaction cost this incurs. In the sample implementation provided, there are several hooks which make this possible.

> 

Reviewer: Let's mention that the minimum cost of accepting a child increased over 20% and for nest minting over 15%.

4. **Why is the pending children array limited instead of supporting pagination?**

The pending child tokens array is not meant to be a buffer to collect the tokens that the user wants to have, but not as active children. It is meant to be an easily traversible list of child token candidates and should be regularly maintained; by either accepting or rejecting proposed child tokens. There is also no need for the pending child tokens array to be unbounded, because active child tokens array is. This means that there is no motivation for the user to keep child tokens in the pending array in order not to consume the active child tokens array.

> Another benefit of having bounded child tokens array is to guard against spam and griefing. As minting malisioud or spam tokens could be relatively easy and low-cost, the bounded pending array assures that all of the tokens in it are easy to identify and that legitimate tokens are not lost in a flood of spam tokens, if one occurs.

Reviewer: Typo on `malisioud`

> A consideration tied to this issue was also how to make sure, that a legitimate token is not accidentally rejected when clearing the pending child tokens array. We added the maximum pending children to reject argument to the clear pending child tokens array call. This assures that only the intended number of pending child tokens is rejected and if a new token is added to the pending child tokens array during the course of preparing such call and executing it, the cearing of this array SHOULD result in a reverted transaction.

Reviewer: Actually we did this only for resources and I just realized so. Added a note to add it here as well.

Reviewer: Typo on `cearing`

5. **Should we allow tokens to be nested into one of its children?**

> The proposal enforces that a parent token can't ve nested into one of its child token, or downstream child tokens for that matter. A parent token and its children are all managed by the parent token's owner. This means that if a token would be nested into one of it's children, this would create the ownership loop and none of the tokens within the loop could be managed, used or utilized anymore. While we realize that some edge cases might want to allow this, the proposal ensures that the user's experience is as secure as possible. If an implementer of this proposal wishes to allow token ownership loop, they can always override the safeguards implemented to guard against them.

Reviewer: I wouldn't mention this is possible because I don't think it is. A loop would make it impossible to get the root owner so nothing will work if you bypass the check.

Reviewer: I'm not saying it couldn't be useful, but it is not doable. Once a loop is created, every operation that needs to check ownership will fall into out of gas since it's an infinite check up. Let's not consider it here

Author: Ok, I'll remove it then 👌

## Rationale

Designing the proposal, we considered the following questions:

1. **How to name the proposal?**

> In an effort to provide as much information about the proposal we identified the most important aspect of the proposal; the parent centered control over nesting. The 
> child token's role is only to be able to be `Nestable` and support a token owning it. This is how we landed on the `Parent-Centered` part of the title.

Author: ```suggestion
In an effort to provide as much information about the proposal we identified the most important aspect of the proposal; the parent centered control over nesting. The child token's role is only to be able to be `Nestable` and support a token owning it. This is how we landed on the `Parent-Centered` part of the title.
```

2. **Why is automatically accepting a child using [EIP-712](./eip-712.md) permit-style signatures not a part of this proposal?**

For consistency. This proposal extends EIP-721 which already uses 1 transaction for approving operations with tokens. It would be inconsistent to have this and also support signing messages for operations with assets.

3. **Why use indexes?** 

> To reduce the gas consumption. If the token ID was used to find which token to accept or reject, iteration over arrays would be required and the cost of the operation would depend on the size of the active or pending children arrays. With the index, the cost is fixed. A list of active and pending children arrays per token need to be maintained, since methods to get them are part of the proposed interface.

Author: ```suggestion
To reduce the gas consumption. If the token ID was used to find which token to accept or reject, iteration over arrays would be required and the cost of the operation would depend on the size of the active or pending children arrays. With the index, the cost is fixed. Lists of active and pending children per token need to be maintained, since methods to get them are part of the proposed interface.
```

## Rationale

Designing the proposal, we considered the following questions:

1. **How to name the proposal?**

> As this proposal standardizes the nesting of one `NFT` into another, the working title of the proposal was Nesting. In an effort to provide as much information about the proposal we identified the most important aspect of the proposal; the parent centered control over nesting. The 

Reviewer: I think this first part is not needed:
`As this proposal standardizes the nesting of one `NFT` into another, the working title of the proposal was Nesting`

Author: Sure, might have been redundant. I added it in an effort to address all parts of the title, but this might have been an overkill :'D

child token's role is only to be able to be `Nestable` and support a token owning it. This is how we landed on the `Parent-Centered` part of the title.

2. **Why is automatically accepting a child using [EIP-712](./eip-712.md) permit-style signatures not a part of this proposal?**

For consistency. This proposal extends EIP-721 which already uses 1 transaction for approving operations with tokens. It would be inconsistent to have this and also support signing messages for operations with assets.

3. **Why use indexes?** 

> To reduce the gas consumption. If the token ID was used to find which token to accept or reject, iteration over arrays would be required and the cost of the operation would depend on the size of the active or pending children arrays. With the index, the cost is fixed. A list of active and pending children arrays per token need to be maintained, since methods to get them are part of the proposed interface.

Reviewer: ...per token need... -> per token **needs**

Author: The need is referring to the arrays, so I think this is the correct form (they need to ..)

Reviewer: I insist, the subject here is "a list". A list needs to be maintained.

Reviewer: Let's just change it for "Lists of active and pending children per token need to be maintained, ..."

Author: Yeah, my bad, you were right 🙈 I think that your last proposal was the best version of this sentence. I'll update it 👌

> To avoid race conditions in which the index of a token changes, the expected token ID as well as the expected token's collection smart contract is included in operations requiring token index, to verify that the token being accessed using the index is the expected token.

Reviewer: the expected token -> the expected one. We're already talking about the token.

Author: Yeah, I think that the word of the day is definitely `token` :'D

> Implementation that would internally keep track of indices using mapping was attempted. The minimum cost of accepting a child token was increased by over 20% and the cost of minting has increased for over 15%. We concluded that it is not necessary for this proposal and can be implemented as an extension for use cases willing to accept the increased transaction cost this incurs. In the sample implementation provided, there are several hooks which make this possible.

Reviewer: We're using "by over" and then "for over".  I think by is the correct one.

Author: I agree :D

4. **Why is the pending children array limited instead of supporting pagination?**

> The pending child tokens array is not meant to be a buffer to collect the tokens that the user wants to have, but not as active children. It is meant to be an easily traversible list of child token candidates and should be regularly maintained; by either accepting or rejecting proposed child tokens. There is also no need for the pending child tokens array to be unbounded, because active child tokens array is. This means that there is no motivation for the user to keep child tokens in the pending array in order not to consume the active child tokens array.

Reviewer: tokens that the user wants to have -> tokens that the NFT has received.

Reviewer: This paragraph in general is a bit confusing IMO, going in circles. I mean I get it, but I already know that you're trying to say. I wonder if someone new can get it easily with this.

Author: I wanted to get the message across, that the root owner might want some pending tokens to remain there for some indeterminable time in the future (like when you keep some items in your inventory when you are playing a game, just in case you might need them in the future, but then you finish the game and the items are still there).

I think that the changes I made to the paragraph properly illustrate my point now

Another benefit of having bounded child tokens array is to guard against spam and griefing. As minting malicious or spam tokens could be relatively easy and low-cost, the bounded pending array assures that all of the tokens in it are easy to identify and that legitimate tokens are not lost in a flood of spam tokens, if one occurs.

A consideration tied to this issue was also how to make sure, that a legitimate token is not accidentally rejected when clearing the pending child tokens array. We added the maximum pending children to reject argument to the clear pending child tokens array call. This assures that only the intended number of pending child tokens is rejected and if a new token is added to the pending child tokens array during the course of preparing such call and executing it, the clearing of this array SHOULD result in a reverted transaction.

5. **Should we allow tokens to be nested into one of its children?**

> The proposal enforces that a parent token can't be nested into one of its child token, or downstream child tokens for that matter. A parent token and its children are all managed by the parent token's root owner. This means that if a token would be nested into one of it's children, this would create the ownership loop and none of the tokens within the loop could be managed, used or utilized anymore.

Reviewer: Used or utilized seems redundant.

6. **How does this proposal differ from the other proposals trying to address a similar problem?**

- TODO: Add considerations & comparisons to other proposals

> ### Multi-Child Storage Schema

Reviewer: I find this title very confusing. We've never talked about "Multi-Child". 
I also feel it's mostly repeating from the 4 point. I would just remove this section and maybe add what's missing into point 4.

Author: Makes sense. I think that all of the important info is already addresed in the point 4. I'll just remove this section.

> Child tokens are stored within two arrays, a pending child tokens array and an active child tokens array. The tokens are accessed using indices. This assures the most efficien way of accessing the child tokens.

Reviewer: Typo: efficien -> efficient

Reviewer: accessing the children tokens. I think

Author: I think it's child tokens, because of tokens already being plural. We established that the "child token" is an item, so the plural of it should be of the whole item (hopefully). In any case, I think that one oof the editors will alert us if I'm wrong :p

Reviewer: Fair enough 💪🏻

> Using a single array containing pending nad active children would require additional information required to be stored in the storage. More specifically a value indicating wheteher the child token is active or pending. This would also disable the anti-spam inherent to the proposal as there would be no way of easily verifying that the pending children number has reached the limit.

Reviewer: nad -> and

Having two children array also allows us to easily clear the pending child tokens array, so this is another benefit of keeping separate arrays.

### Propose-Commit pattern for child token management

Adding child tokens to a parent token MUST be done in the form of propose-commit pattern to allow for limited mutability by a 3rd party. When adding a child token to a parent token, it is first placed in a *"Pending"* array, and MUST be migrated to the *"Active"* array by the parent token's root owner. The *"Pending"* child tokens array SHOULD be limited to 128 slots to prevent spam and griefing.

> The limitation that only the root owner can accept the child tokens also introduces a trust inherent to the proposal. This ensures that the root owner of the token has full control over the token. Noone can force the user to accept a child if they don't want to.

Reviewer: Noone -> No one
